# HotelBookingAnalysis
Hotel Business is dependent on the customer traffic they get daily or on occasions. The apex point of this case study is to analyse the data of 2 types of hotels and give complete insights into their past, and current business. Also to provide some envisages that aid their business to grow in the upward direction.
We are a team of three – Luv Mutreja, Jivan Jadhao, and Hitesh Kumar Khurana. We present here our exploratory data analysis, visualizations, interactive plots, animations, and lots of other interesting insights into the Hotel Booking data. We began by examining the raw data and performing the necessary cleaning of the dataset. then determined which features provide the most insight into price prediction and remove those that only serve to add noise. Data visualization and exploratory data analysis were performed on the tidied dataset to inform our modeling. 
We have tried to get an outlook of the following problem statement using data analytic techniques.
	Analysis based on the number of bookings.
	Analysis based on the types of people who book the hotels. 
	Analysis based on price distribution.
	Analysis based on the type of stay.
	Analysis based on their arriving and checking out time.
           As a team, we invested a lot of time in discussing and brainstorming ideas - from selecting the dataset to compiling the final version of this report. All of us had a deep sense of teamwork and communicated well with each other. We were successful in acknowledging and appreciating each other’s efforts while at the same time correcting each other along the way. The work was divided such that each of us worked on equally challenging tasks. 
             From EDA, we found that The highest number of bookings was in the year 2016 and the busiest                 month for the last 2 years (i.e. for the years 2016 and 2017) was the 8th month which is the August month.  The highest consumption of meal, by customers is BB (Bed and Breakfast). Highest frequency of number of members in hotel bookings is 2 and  lowest is 5. The optimal length of stay in order to get the best daily rate is 5 days. The Hotels should work on decreasing the booking cancellation ratio? Hotel Owner should work on their Full Board meals, so that the customers having long duration stay can order for The FB(Full Board).
